# Cally
The code under review can be found in [2022-05-cally](https://github.com/code-423n4/2022-05-cally).

## Findings Summary

| ID | Description | Severity |
| - | - | - |
| [M-01](https://github.com/MiloTruck/audits/blob/main/code4rena/2022-05-cally.md#m-01-prevent-users-from-sending-more-eth-than-the-premium-price-in-buyoption) | Prevent users from sending more ETH than the premium price in `buyOption()` | Medium |
| [M-02](https://github.com/MiloTruck/audits/blob/main/code4rena/2022-05-cally.md#m-02-missing-upper-limit-definition-in-setfee) | Missing upper limit definition in `setFee()` | Medium |
| [M-03](https://github.com/MiloTruck/audits/blob/main/code4rena/2022-05-cally.md#m-03-vaults-created-with-fee-on-transfer-tokens-will-always-fail) | Vaults created with fee-on-transfer tokens will always fail | Medium |
| [M-04](https://github.com/MiloTruck/audits/blob/main/code4rena/2022-05-cally.md#m-04-recommend-using-safetransferfrom-instead-of-transferfrom-for-nfts) | Recommend using `safeTransferFrom()` instead of `transferFrom()` for NFTs | Medium |

# [M-01] Prevent users from sending more ETH than the premium price in `buyOption()`

## Vulnerability details

When calling `buyOption()`, if a buyer accidentally sends more ETH than the premium price, only the current vault beneficiary would be able to withdraw the additional funds. The buyer or owner has no way of recovering the lost funds.

## Proof of Concept
`buyOption()` checks if the amount of ETH sent by the buyer is equal or larger than the premium price:
```js   
Cally.sol:224           require(msg.value >= premium, "Incorrect ETH amount sent");
```

All of the funds is then directly added to the balance of the current vault beneficiary. `Cally.sol:248-250`:
```js
// increment vault beneficiary's unclaimed premiums
address beneficiary = getVaultBeneficiary(vaultId);
ethBalance[beneficiary] += msg.value;
```

Only the beneficiary is able to withdraw the amount added to his `ethBalance`. Thus, only he can recover the additional funds mistakenly sent by the buyer.

## Recommended Mitigation Steps
Consider changing `>=` to `==` in `buyOption()`:
```js   
Cally.sol:224           require(msg.value >= premium, "Incorrect ETH amount sent");
```

This is more logical, especially since `premium` is derived from fixed values in `premiumOptions[]`.

Furthermore, it helps to maintain consistency with the check in `exercise()`:
```js
Cally.sol:272           require(msg.value == vault.currentStrike, "Incorrect ETH sent for strike");
```

# [M-02] Missing upper limit definition in `setFee()`

## Vulnerability details

As seen below, `setFee()` allows the owner to set `feeRate` to any value within the range of `uint256`:
```js
// Cally.sol:119-121
function setFee(uint256 feeRate_) external onlyOwner {
  feeRate = feeRate_;
}
```

This would allow the owner to either:
1. Obtain up to 100% of the strike price for all options when exercised.
2. Prevent users from exercising options by forcing `exercise()` to revert.

## Proof of Concept
`Cally.sol:281-289`, in `exercise()` function:
```js
// collect protocol fee
uint256 fee = 0;
if (feeRate > 0) {
  fee = (msg.value * feeRate) / 1e18;
  protocolUnclaimedFees += fee;
}

// increment vault beneficiary's ETH balance
ethBalance[getVaultBeneficiary(vaultId)] += msg.value - fee;
```

As shown above, `feeRate` is used to calculate the `fee` which the owner receives whenever a user chooses to exercise an option.

If `feeRate` is set to `1 ether` (100%), the beneficiary would receive nothing while the owner receives all of `msg.value`, which is the strike price.

Furthermore, if `feeRate` is set to anything above `1 ether` (>100%), `fee` would be larger than `msg.value`, causing `msg.value - fee` to underflow and `exercise()` to revert whenever it is called.

Example:
* `feeRate = 2 ether`, equivalent to 200%
* `fee = 2 * msg.value`
* `msg.value - fee` reverts as `msg.value` is smaller than `fee`

## Recommended Mitigation Steps
Consider declaring a reasonable upper limit in `setFee()`, such as 30%. This would prevent potential griefing and increase the trust of users in the contract.

Should the developers not want to impose an upper limit, `feeRate` should be limited to `1 ether` (100%) to prevent the functionality of `exercise()` from breaking.

# [M-03] Vaults created with fee-on-transfer tokens will always fail

## Impact
`ERC20` token contracts can be customized in ways that `Cally.sol` does not account for: 
1. Deflationary tokens that charge a fee for every call to `transfer()` or `transferFrom()`, such as [RFI](https://etherscan.io/address/0xa1afffe3f4d611d252010e3eaf6f4d77088b0cd7#code).
2. [Rebasing tokens](https://academy.binance.com/en/articles/elastic-supply-tokens-explained) that causes a user's balance to change over time according to price.

Since a user is able to specify any `ERC20` token when creating a vault, it is possible for such tokens to be used. Due to differences in token amounts, this would force `withdraw()` and `exercise()` to always fail, causing the tokens to be locked in the contract and unretrievable by anyone. 

## Vulnerability Details
In `createVault()`, tokens are transferred to the contract using `safeTransferFrom()`, which indirectly calls `transferFrom()`.
```js
Cally.sol:200           : ERC20(vault.token).safeTransferFrom(msg.sender, address(this), vault.tokenIdOrAmount);
```

Thus, when creating a vault with tokens that have a fee on transfer, the contract receives less tokens than stated in `vault.tokenIdOrAmount`.

This causes `exercise()` and `withdraw()` to always fail, as the contract attempts to transfer `vault.tokenIdOrAmount` amount of tokens to users. However, it does not have a sufficient amount of tokens to transfer, causing `safeTransfer()` to revert.
```js
Cally.sol:296           : ERC20(vault.token).safeTransfer(msg.sender, vault.tokenIdOrAmount);
Cally.sol:345           : ERC20(vault.token).safeTransfer(msg.sender, vault.tokenIdOrAmount);
```

## Proof of Concept
Alice creates vault with an `ERC20` token that charges a 2% fee on any transfer, and puts in 100 tokens. 
* Due to the 2% fee, the `Cally` contract only receives 98 tokens upon `safeTransferFrom()` in `createVault()`.

If users attempt to call `withdraw()` or `exercise()` on the vault:
* User either calls `initiateWithdraw() -> withdraw()` or `buyOption() -> exercise()`
  * `safeTransfer()` in `withdraw()`/`exercise()` attempts to transfer 100 tokens from `Cally` contract to user
  * However, the `Cally` contract only has 98 tokens
  * `withdraw()`/`exercise()` reverts

## Additional Considerations
Even if the `Cally` contract has a sufficient amount of tokens, a malicious user could use this to DOS all vaults using `ERC20` tokens with fee on transfer. This is done by repeatedly creating vaults with the same token and withdrawing until the contract has less tokens than the victim's `vault.tokenIdOrAmount`.

## Recommended Mitigation Steps
One possible mitigation would be to store the amount of tokens received in `vault.tokenIdOrAmount` instead of `tokenIdOrAmount` itself.

Another mitigation would be to somehow disallow using `feeOnTransfer` or `rebasing` tokens to create vaults.

# [M-04] Recommend using `safeTransferFrom()` instead of `transferFrom()` for NFTs
The [EIP-721](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-721) standard states:
```js
  /// @notice Transfer ownership of an NFT -- THE CALLER IS RESPONSIBLE
  ///  TO CONFIRM THAT `_to` IS CAPABLE OF RECEIVING NFTS OR ELSE
  ///  THEY MAY BE PERMANENTLY LOST
```

`Cally.sol` uses `transferFrom()` to facillitate the transfer of `ERC721` NFTs from the contract to users, as shown below.

In `exercise()`:
```js
Cally.sol:295          ? ERC721(vault.token).transferFrom(address(this), msg.sender, vault.tokenIdOrAmount)
```

In `withdraw()`:
```js
Cally.sol:344          ? ERC721(vault.token).transferFrom(address(this), msg.sender, vault.tokenIdOrAmount)
```

To prevent a permanent loss of NFTs, there should be checks in place to ensure `msg.sender` is capable of receiving NFTs. Otherwise, consider using `safeTransferFrom()` instead of `transferFrom()`.
